== BookForm ==

This tool provides a convenient web interface to introduce data about individual books to Wikidata.

This is similar in spirit to the Cradle tool, but is specifically designed for books, and is able to create multiple items at once (for the book as a work, the specific edition, and the author).

=== How to use it ===

To use this, you need to have a Wikimedia account and be logged in.

'''Attention:''' This tool is not yet available for public use. It is currently in development and testing.

# Go to https://bookform.toolforge.org and fill in the form with the relevant information about the book.
# Click the "Generate QuickStatements" button and copy the resulting text.
# Go to the [https://tools.wmflabs.org/quickstatements/ QuickStatements tool] and log in with your Wikimedia account.
# Paste the QuickStatements instructions into the input box and click "Run" to execute the instructions and create the items on Wikidata.

=== How it works ===

Currently, it does not make edits directly to Wikidata;
rather, it creates QuickStatements instructions that can be copied and pasted into the QuickStatements tool.

These statements create three items on Wikidata, according to a common model for bibliographic data:

==== Author ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Property !! Value
|-
! [https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Property:P31 instance of (P31)]
| [https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q5 human (Q5)]
|-
! [https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Property:P106 occupation (P106)]
| [https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q36180 writer (Q36180)]
|}

==== Work ====

{| class="wikitable"
! Property !! Value !! Example
|-
! [https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Property:P31 instance of (P31)]
| colspan="2" | [https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q47461344 written work (Q47461344)]
|-
! [https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Property:P1476 title (P1476)]
| &lt;a string&gt;
| "The Adventures of Tom Sawywer"
|-
! [https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Property:P50 author (P50)]
| &lt;an instance of [https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q5 human (Q5)]&gt;
| [https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q7245 Mark Twain (Q7245)]
|}

==== Edition ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Property !! Value !! Example
|-
! [https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Property:P31 instance of (P31)]
| colspan="2" | [https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q3331189 version, edition or translation (Q3331189)])
|-
! [https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Property:P577 publication date (P577)]
| &lt;a year&gt;
| 1876
|-
! [https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Property:P629 edition or translation of (P629)]
| &lt;the instance of [https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q47461344 written work (Q47461344)] created above&gt;
|
|-
! [https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Property:P212 ISBN-13 (P212)]
| &lt;a string&gt;
| "978-3-16-148410-0"
|}

== Limitatons ==

* This tool is not yet deployed to Toolforge :)
* It does not auto-complete any existing information from Wikidata or other sources (e.g. from ISBN).
* It does not check for duplicates.
* It creates multiple items but does not connect them together
